Ember CLI Svelte
=================

**Cybernetically-enhance your ambitious web apps**

This *experimental* add-on makes it possible to use [Svelte](https://svelte.dev) components within your Ember.js application.

It is alpha-grade software and you should **only** use it **at your own risk** and with **extreme caution** in production.  There is no intent to support legacy versions of Ember.


## Compatibility

* Ember.js v3.24 or above
* Ember CLI v3.24 or above
* Node.js v14 or above


## Installation

```
ember install ember-cli-svelte
```

The default blueprint will automatically modify your `app.js` file to use the extended resolver from this add-on instead of the default one from `ember-resolver`.

In other words, the import of your `app.js` will go from looking like this:

```javascript
import Resolver from 'ember-resolver';
```

to this:

```javascript
import Resolver from 'ember-cli-svelte/resolver';
```

The extended resolver is necessary to support the colocation of regular component files alongside `.svelte` files.  In any case, you will need to use this resolver, so if you choose to use `npm install` instead of `ember install`, you must change this import by hand.

If you choose to uninstall this add-on using `ember uninstall ember-cli-svelte`, your code will be reverted back to using `ember-resolver`.


## Usage

Simply drop a `.svelte` file in `app/components`, and then you can call it in your templates just like a regular Glimmer component.

```hbs
<!-- app/components/hello.svelte -->

<script>
  export let name;
</script>

<h2>Hello, {name}!</h2>
```

```hbs
{{!-- app/templates/application.hbs --}}

<Hello @name="Tomster" />
```

Outputs:

```hbs
<h2>Hello, Tomster!</h2>
```

### Block Content

Svelte components can also take block content and use it in a default slot.

```hbs
<!-- app/components/hello.svelte -->

<script>
  export let name;
</script>

<h2>Hello, {name}!</h2>
<h3><slot></slot></h3>
```

```hbs
{{!-- app/templates/application.hbs --}}

<Hello @name="Tomster">Meet Svelte</Hello>
```

Outputs:

```hbs
<h2>Hello, Tomster!</h2>
<h3>Meet Svelte</h3>
```

Block content can be dynamic and the Svelte component can even dynamically show/hide the slot.


### Surrounding Element

A surrounding DOM element can be defined with the special `<svelte::options>` tag in your Svelte component:

```hbs
<svelte::options tag="hello-from-svelte">
```

This produces the following output with the component we've been working with here so far:

```hbs
<hello-from-svelte>
  <h2>Hello, Tomster!</h2>
  <h3>Meet Svelte</h3>
</hello-from-svelte>
```

Any attributes spread to the component invocation from Glimmer will be applied to the surrounding element if it is present.  Note that the tag option is static and cannot be changed during runtime.

Svelte components can import and use other Svelte components just like you would expect:

```hbs
<!-- app/components/my-component.svelte -->

<script>
  import SomeOtherComponent from './some-other-component.svelte';
</script>

<SomeOtherComponent />
```

The inclusion of the `.svelte` file extension is both technically necessary and helps support existing Svelte component code.

Svelte component code is added individually to the build tree with the `.svelte.js` suffix.  Not only can they be imported in your Ember code just like any other module, but they are registered with the app and can be resolved that way.


### File Colocation

Files of the same name as a `.svelte` file can be colocated.

```
app/
├─ components/
│  ├─ my-component.js
│  ├─ my-component.svelte
│  ├─ my-component.hbs
```

You probably want to stick to just using a single `.svelte` file for your components since that's simple enough and you can even export variables for use elsewhere with [module context](https://svelte.dev/tutorial/module-exports).

However, you may want to colocate a JS file.  There's two ways in which this is treated.

A JS file with no Glimmer component being exported is just treated as a module you can import wherever you need it.

If the JS file has a Glimmer component as its default export, that component will override the underlying Glimmer component that's autogenerated for the Svelte component.

Since `.svelte` files export their respective Glimmer wrapper components through the `GlimmerComponent` named export, a colocated `.js` file can be used as an opportunity to reach under the hood.

```javascript
// app/components/my-component.js

import { GlimmerComponent } from './my-component.svelte';
import { action } from '@ember/object';

export default class MyComponent extends GlimmerComponent {
  @action
  insertSvelteComponent() {
    this.svelteComponentInstance.$set({ name: 'Ember is Omakase' });
  }
}
```


## Features

This add-on currently supports only very basic features:

- Invokes Svelte components in Glimmer/hbs templates
- Forwards the reactivity of passed props
- Supports passing block content to the default slot
- Attribute spread (if wrapping element is specified)

There is no support (yet) for things like using `.svelte` files for route templates, dependency injection and lookups, Typescript, invoking Glimmer components within Svelte components, FastBoot compatibility (this will be *hard*), etc.


## Contributing

See the [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for details.


## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
